samples: matter: Add support for migrating DAC to KMU fo NRF54L (#18104)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/end_product/security.rst

     - Trusted Storage library + Hardware Unique Key (HUK), Trusted Storage library + SHA-256 hash
   * - nRF5340 SoC + nRF7002 companion IC
     - Not available
     - Not available
   * - nRF54L15 SoC
     - Trusted Storage library + Hardware Unique Key (HUK)
     - Key Management Unit (KMU), Trusted Storage library + Hardware Unique Key (HUK),  Trusted Storage library + SHA-256 hash
   * - nRF54L15 SoC + Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
     - Trusted Storage library + Hardware Unique Key (HUK)
     - Key Management Unit (KMU), Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) Storage

.. _matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_its:

DAC in Trusted Storage library
==============================

The Device Attestation Certificates private key can be stored in the Trusted Storage library.
The key is encrypted with the AEAD key derived from the Hardware Unique Key (HUK) or a SHA-256 hash.
This storage backend is selected by default for all platforms that support the PSA crypto API.

To enable storing the DAC private key in the Trusted Storage library, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_ITS` Kconfig option to ``y``.
To select encryption choose one of the possible options:

> - To use key derivation from HUK, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TRUSTED_STORAGE_BACKEND_AEAD_KEY_DERIVE_FROM_HUK` Kconfig option to ``y``.
> - To use key derivation from a SHA-256 hash, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TRUSTED_STORAGE_BACKEND_AEAD_KEY_HASH_UID` Kconfig option to ``y``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To use key derivation from HUK, set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TRUSTED_STORAGE_BACKEND_AEAD_KEY_DERIVE_FROM_HUK` to ``y``.
- To use key derivation from a SHA-256 hash, set :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TRUSTED_STORAGE_BACKEND_AEAD_KEY_HASH_UID` to ``y``.
```
Can leave out the Kconfig part here since we added it to the introducing sentence.

Encryption with the AEAD key derived from the Hardware Unique Key (HUK) is available only on the nRF5340 and nRF54L platforms.

.. _matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu:

DAC in Key Management Unit (KMU)
================================

The Key Management Unit (KMU) is a hardware peripheral that provides secure storage for cryptographic keys.

> It is available in the nRF54L SoC series and can be used to store the DAC private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is available in the nRF54L Series SoCs and can be used to store the DAC private key.
```

This storage backend can be used with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

You can enable storing the DAC private key in the KMU by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU` Kconfig option to ``y``.

You can additionally encrypt the DAC private key in the KMU storage by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option to ``y``.
This operation requires two additional KMU slots to store the nonce and the authentication tag, making the total number of slots used four.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option is set to ``n``, then the DAC private key is stored in the KMU without encryption and utilizes two KMU slots.

By default, the DAC private key occupies the last slots dedicated for application purposes.
For the non-encrypted version, it occupies slots 178 and 179, and for the encrypted version, it occupies slots 176-179.

> You can change the default slots by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_SLOT` Kconfig option to the desired slot number within the possible range of 0-179.

Reviewer: Is the defined slot the first or the last slot? If it's the last, it can't be 0, and if it's the first, it can't be 179.

Author: The possible range that the user can use to store this key is 0-179, whereas we use the last 4 slots (176,177,178,179) for Encrypted, and the last 2 slots for not-encrypted version. Should I explain it better? :)

Author: Ok, maybe it would be better to write that for encryption available slots are 0-176 and without it 0-178. :)

> To read more about KMU slots, see the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_slots` user guide.
> 
> To learn more about the KMU peripheral, see the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_cryptography` user guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read more about KMU slots, see the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_slots` section of the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_cryptography` page, which details the KMU peripheral.
```

.. _matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu:

DAC in Key Management Unit (KMU)
================================

The Key Management Unit (KMU) is a hardware peripheral that provides secure storage for cryptographic keys.
It is available in the nRF54L Series SoCs and can be used to store the DAC private key.
This storage backend can be used with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

You can enable storing the DAC private key in the KMU by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU` Kconfig option to ``y``.

You can additionally encrypt the DAC private key in the KMU storage by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option to ``y``.
This operation requires two additional KMU slots to store the nonce and the authentication tag, making the total number of slots used four.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option is set to ``n``, then the DAC private key is stored in the KMU without encryption and utilizes two KMU slots.

By default, the DAC private key occupies the last slots dedicated for application purposes.

> For the non-encrypted version, it occupies slots 178 and 179, and for the encrypted version, it occupies slots 176-179.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the non-encrypted version, it occupies last two slots (178 and 179), and for the encrypted version, it occupies the last four slots (176-179).
```
Just to fit the actual number of slots somewhere.

> You can change the default slots by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_SLOT` Kconfig option to the desired slot number within the possible range of 0-176 for with encryption and 0-178 without encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the default slots by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_SLOT` Kconfig option to the first slot number of the desired slots, making sure that all slots fit within the possible range.
This means you can set it to slot numbers 0-176 for encrypted, or 0-178 for non-encrypted.
```

.. _matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key:

Storing Device Attestation Certificate private key
**************************************************

In Matter samples based on the PSA crypto API, the Device Attestation Certificate's private key, which exists in the factory data set, can be migrated to secure storage.
The secure storage used depends on the platform and the cryptographic backend.

To enable the migration of the DAC private key from the factory data set to secure storage, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_MIGRATE_DAC_PRIV_KEY` Kconfig option to ``y``.

Currently, this feature is available only for the PSA crypto API.
See the following table to learn about the default secure storage backends for the DAC private key and the available secure storage backends for each platform:

.. list-table:: Matter secure storage
   :widths: auto
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Platform
     - Default secure storage backend for DAC private key
     - Available secure storage backends
   * - nRF52840 SoC
     - Trusted Storage library + SHA-256 hash
     - Trusted Storage library + SHA-256 hash
   * - nRF5340 SoC

>      - Thread

Reviewer 2: What does it mean "Thread"? Shouldn't it be one from the available backends?

This storage backend can be used with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

You can enable storing the DAC private key in the KMU by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU` Kconfig option to ``y``.

You can additionally encrypt the DAC private key in the KMU storage by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option to ``y``.
This operation requires two additional KMU slots to store the nonce and the authentication tag, making the total number of slots used four.
If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_ENCRYPTED` Kconfig option is set to ``n``, then the DAC private key is stored in the KMU without encryption and utilizes two KMU slots.

By default, the DAC private key occupies the last slots dedicated for application purposes.
For the non-encrypted version, it occupies slots 178 and 179, and for the encrypted version, it occupies slots 176-179.
You can change the default slots by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_SLOT` Kconfig option to the desired slot number within the possible range of 0-176 for with encryption and 0-178 without encryption.

> To read more about KMU slots, see the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_slots` user guide.

Reviewer 2: This should be removed, right? It's repeated below.
